---
title: 'The css Prop'
---

The primary way to style elements with emotion is the `css` prop. It provides a concise and flexible API to style your components.

## Get Started

First, import `jsx` from `@emotion/core` 

```js
import { jsx } from '@emotion/core'
```

Second, set the jsx pragma at the top of your source file. Similar to a comment containing linter configuration, this configures the jsx compiler to use the `jsx` function instead of `React.createElement`.

> [JSX Pragma Babel Documentation](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-react-jsx#pragma)

```js
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from '@emotion/core'
```

At this point, any component or element that accepts a `className` prop can also use the `css` prop. The styles supplied to the `css` prop are evaluated and the computed class name applied to the `className` prop. 

## Object Styles

The `css` prop accepts object styles directly and does not require an additional import. For more usage with objects, 

> [Object Style Documentation](/docs/object-styles.md).

```jsx
// @live
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from '@emotion/core'

render(
  <div
    css={{
      backgroundColor: 'hotpink',
      '&:hover': {
        color: 'lightgreen'
      }
    }}
  >
    This has a hotpink background.
  </div>
)
```

## String Styles

To pass string styles, you must use `css` which is exported by `@emotion/core`, it can be used as a [tagged template literal](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals) like below.

> Note:
>
> **`css` from `@emotion/core` does not return the computed class name string.**  The function returns an object containing the computed name and flattened styles. The returned object is understood by emotion at a low level and can be composed with other emotion based styles and used with the `styled` API for example.

```jsx
// @live
// this comment tells babel to convert jsx to calls to a function called jsx instead of React.createElement
/** @jsx jsx */
import { css, jsx } from '@emotion/core'

const color = 'darkgreen'

render(
  <div
    css={css`
      background-color: hotpink;
      &:hover {
        color: ${color};
      }
    `}
  >
    This has a hotpink background.
  </div>
)
```

## Style Precedence

The `className` prop value overrides the styles provided to the `css` prop which is an important distinction when passing class names generated by emotion. Emotion removes generated class names from the `className` prop value, their underlying styles composed on top of the styles supplied to the `css` prop generating a new, single class name. The precedence order may seem counter-intuitive, but it allows developers predictably compose components and their styles.

The following example demonstrates a potential problem if the `css` prop overwrites styles from `className` prop.

```js
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from '@emotion/core'

const P = ({ className, ...rest }) => (
  <p
    className={className}
    css={{ color: 'blue' }}
    {...rest}
  />
)

const TextBlock = ({ className, ...rest }) => (
  <P
    className={className}
    css={{ color: 'darkgray' }}
    {...rest}
  >
    This text is darkgray
  </P>
)
```

The author of the `TextBlock` component is expecting the text color of the rendered `P` component to be "darkgray" and further, users of the `TextBlock` component might want to customize the `color` value. The pattern in the example allows developers to effortlessly compose components and overwrite styles in a predictable manner. 

> Note:
>
> The css prop is not compatible with `babel-plugin-transform-react-inline-elements`. If you include it in your `.babelrc` your styles won't be applied.
